[Music]
the flying light ball the cabin of an
edge Li optica is separated from the
main body and provides an almost full
overview of the plane surroundings the
plane's only engine is built in the body
right between the wings unfortunately
only 20 of them were ever produced and
very few are still in use literal Flying
Saucer the Avro Canada vz9 avrocar also
known as the flying Jeep is every alien
enthusiasts dream come true this thing
had vertical takeoff capability and an
unprecedented speed for its heyday back
in the 50s the ambitious project was
gradually tuned down more and more to
resemble a concept with working
prototypes that would easily be outrun
by a rabbit aha what a shame
at least it looks cool a flying pancake
the Vout v1 73 is another one you could
easily miss identify as an alien ship in
reality it's a small all winged plane
driven forward by a pair of huge
propellers this design allowed for a
great deal of maneuverability at low
speed a quick takeoff and the body was
extremely sturdy still the Vote v1 73
was more of an experiment than a plane
for real use plain buggy meet the
McDonald XF 85 goblin the first thing
you notice the thing is tiny it's about
the size of a Volkswagen Beetle the
second it has no wheels or taxiing gear
and both of these features serve one
purpose the Goblin was supposed to be
dropped out of a large aircraft and
serve as a jet fighter to protect it
then it would be caught and tucked back
into the hull as you'd expect this was
too difficult to perform consistently so
the project didn't take off standing
salmon play
it's the Lockheed XF
then switch to horizontal flight after
the mission it would once again switch
back to the vertical position as it
hovered to its landing all that did
prove to be possible but imagine how
hard it was for a pilot to perform such
a maneuver these things could land on
the smallest amount of space yet they
still didn't find much use flying cruise
ship how many wings does one aircraft
need the engineers of a huge flying boat
called the caproni CA 60 would answer
nine and no less this winged boat was
supposed to fit 100 passengers and fly
over the Atlantic back in the early
1920s sadly it never made it through
test flights and those transatlantic
dreams were shattered inflatable
airplane I'm not kidding this thing is
called the Goodyear inflate oh plane it
was initially designed to be a rescue
plane that could be conveniently dropped
anywhere in a box and then inflate it
sounds cool but only twelve of them were
ever produced even though it seemed like
they met every design goal they needed
to gentle Astro giant cue the epic music
and let's meet the Strato launch whoo
two hulls bridged by enormous wings
stretching a mind-numbing span of 385
feet yes it's the airplane as big as a
football field bigger in fact by a long
shot
it also out stretches Big Ben and Lady
Liberty okay it's big we get it just
getting something that massive into the
skies is awesome enough but this plane
has an even more exciting purpose Strato
launch is a super-heavy carrier aimed at
reaching the highest layers of the
atmosphere it's a space plane that will
then go on its own right into orbit
multi eyed monster
the Lund class Ukraine oh plane can't
technically be called an aircraft it
just doesn't go that high up in the air
instead it uses the so called ground
effect to hover about 13 feet over the
surface of the water but it goes fast
and looks like a plane even with all
these strange features like short wings
and a nose that looks more like a ship's
bow as for all those eyes on this
monster their turbo fans that create
forward thrust skeletal plane that
you've never seen wings like this the
Scaled Composites Proteus has tandem
wings tooth in pairs designed
specifically to maintain an insane
altitude for a long period this aircraft
is used to carry small cargo like some
complicated sensors and radars used in
scientific aerial observation this plane
can be pilot flown or by remote control
from the ground whew neato flying
submarine we've seen boat planes space
planes saucer planes now the time has
come meet the reed flying submarine one
the RSF was built by a single person and
the pilot used an Aqualung to breathe
underwater this thing never excelled at
either under water or air travel but it
could still do both half decently big
brain plane the super guppy is the only
aircraft in the world capable of
carrying space vessel parts in its Hall
no wonder it looks extremely bloated and
the cargo is so huge that it can't be
loaded in through the tail section
instead the plane's head is open wide
for loading tail the starship
did you know the most experimental
aircraft are marked with a letter X in
their name the mcdonnell-douglas x 36 is
no exception and just a glance at it
will tell you why it looks like some
kind of anti-gravitational racing pod
from the future in reality it's a tail
as experimental fighter jet that showed
impressive performance in all tests but
for some unknown reasons was never
produced barrel with wings
thus Tippa Caprio knee has to be the
weirdest design from 1932 both the
engine and propeller are built inside
the hollow fuselage and the cabin is
mounted on top like a saddle on a Raging
Bull and get this the whole thing is
mostly made of wood test pilot said it
was hard to turn around and thus the
plane was only an experiment the
noisemaker this plane was made for
agricultural aviation in Poland in 1972
it's called the PZ LM fifteen Belphegor
and it was infamous for the terrible
noise it produced and for that
unforgettably awkward design bike
chopper this is the h z1 aero cycle
remember that thing about having one at
the end yeah it's the first and only of
its kind and for good reason a pilot of
this chopper had to stand on top of the
blades during flight discs for wings
parasol is just a fancy name for an
umbrella but the nemeth parasol is one
of the rarest aircraft on this list only
two airplanes with disc wings were ever
made surprising given that the initial
test of the aircraft showed that it's
really stable in the air easy to pilot
and the landing was gentle by gliding
down on a parachute tubular winged jet
behold the cylindrical wings of the
French maid's enigma Coleoptera they go
around the plane and form a ring that
allows the aircraft to take off and land
vertically the thing went through only
nine flights and couldn't reach massive
success
a goose monster from outer space yeah
we'll all go with that description yet
another ground-effect vessel that looks
like a plane trying to take a swim or a
boat aiming for the skies the RF bx1 14
is fairly tame when you look at it from
the front but a side view of it makes
you want to call a professional and ask
if this thing is even real or
photoshopped sun-powered stick with
wings the Solar Impulse looks like the
skeleton of a big liner but don't let
its looks fool you it uses some
groundbreaking technologies this plane
is powered completely by solar energy
thanks to all those solar panels and it
could be the plane of the future it
doesn't even need to land to refuel and
the battery has enough charge after a
sunny day to keep the aircraft in flight
through the night